Document DLS configuration within Kibana role management (#90329)
elastic/kibana: docs/user/security/authorization/index.asciidoc

To create a role, open the menu, then click *Stack Management > Roles* and click **Create role**.

[float]
==== Required permissions

The `manage_security` {ref}/security-privileges.html#privileges-list-cluster[cluster privilege] is required to access role management.

[[adding_cluster_privileges]]
==== Cluster privileges

Cluster privileges grant access to monitoring and management features in {es}. They also enable <<management, Stack Management>> capabilities in {kib}.

Refer to {ref}/security-privileges.html#privileges-list-cluster[cluster privileges] for a complete description of available options.

[[adding_index_privileges]]
==== Index privileges

Each role can grant access to multiple data indices, and each index can have a different set of privileges.
We recommend granting the `read` and `view_index_metadata` privileges to each index that you expect your users to work with in {kib}.

> Refer to {ref}/security-privileges.html#privileges-list-indices[index privileges] for a complete description of available options.

Reviewer: Nit: the header on the link destination is "Indices privileges"
```suggestion
Refer to {ref}/security-privileges.html#privileges-list-indices[indices privileges] for a complete description of available options.
```

Author: I noticed that too, but I don't like the way the double-plural sounds 🙂. I'm happy to go either way here, though. @gchaps do you have a preference?

Reviewer 2: My preference is "index privileges"

Reviewer: So maybe we should change the heading on the linked page?

Document-level and field-level security affords you even more granularity when it comes to granting access to your data.

> With document-level security (DLS), you can write an {es} query to describe which documents this role grants access to.

Reviewer 2: Try to rewrite this sentence so it doesn't end with "to".

With field-level security (FLS), you can instruct {es} to grant or deny access to specific fields within each document.

[[index_privilege_example_1]]
===== Example: Grant access to indices that match the `filebeat-*` pattern

. Go to **Stack Management > Roles**, and then click **Create role**.
. In **Index privileges**, enter:

> .. `filebeat-*` in the **Index** field.

Reviewer: Nit: the field label is "Indices"
```suggestion
.. `filebeat-*` in the **Indices** field.
```

.. `read` and `view_index_metadata` in the **Privileges** field.

[role="screenshot"]
image::user/security/images/create-role-index-example.png[Create role with index privileges]

[[index_privilege_dls_example]]

> ===== Example: Grant read access to specific documents that match the `filebeat-*` pattern

Reviewer: Perhaps this would be a bit more accurate?
```suggestion
===== Example: Grant read access to specific documents in indices that match the `filebeat-*` pattern
```

. Go to **Stack Management > Roles**, and then click **Create role**.
. In **Index privileges**, enter:

> .. `filebeat-*` in the **Index** field.

Reviewer: Nit: the field label is "Indices"
```suggestion
.. `filebeat-*` in the **Indices** field.
```

.. `read` and `view_index_metadata` in the **Privileges** field.

> . Select **Grant read privileges to selected documents**.

Reviewer: Nit: "specific"
```suggestion
. Select **Grant read privileges to specific documents**.
```

> . Enter an {es} query that describes the documents you want to grant access to. This example writes a query that allows access to documents that have a `category` field equal to `click`:

Reviewer: Perhaps this would be better wording?
```suggestion
. Enter an {es} query that matches the documents you want to grant access to. This example writes a query that allows access to documents that have a `category` field equal to `click`:
```

Author: I like it!

> . Enter an {es} query that matches the documents you want to grant access to. This example writes a query that allows access to documents that have a `category` field equal to `click`:

Reviewer 2: Try to rewrite this sentence so it doesn't end in "to".

[float]
==== Required permissions

The `manage_security` {ref}/security-privileges.html#privileges-list-cluster[cluster privilege] is required to access role management.

[[adding_cluster_privileges]]
==== Cluster privileges

> Cluster privileges grant access to monitoring and management features within {es}. They also enable certain <<management, Stack Management>> capabilities within {kib}.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Cluster privileges grant access to monitoring and management features in {es}. They also enable <<management, Stack Management>> capabilities in {kib}.
```

Refer to {ref}/security-privileges.html#privileges-list-cluster[cluster privileges] for a complete description of available options.

[[adding_index_privileges]]
==== Index privileges

Each role can grant access to multiple data indices, and each index can have a different set of privileges.

> We recommend granting the `read` and `view_index_metadata` privileges to each index that you expect your users to work with inside of {kib}.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We recommend granting the `read` and `view_index_metadata` privileges to each index that you expect your users to work with in {kib}.
```

Refer to {ref}/security-privileges.html#privileges-list-indices[index privileges] for a complete description of available options.

Document-level and field-level security affords you even more granularity when it comes to granting access to your data.

> With document-level security ("DLS"), you can write an {es} query to describe which documents this role should grant access to.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
With document-level security (DLS), you can write an {es} query to describe which documents this role grants access to.
```

> With field-level security ("FLS"), you can instruct {es} to grant or deny access to specific fields within each document.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
With field-level security (FLS), you can instruct {es} to grant or deny access to specific fields within each document.
```

[[index_privilege_example_1]]

> ===== Example 1: Grant access to indices matching the `filebeat-*` pattern

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
===== Example: Grant access to indices that match the `filebeat-*` pattern
```

> . Enter `filebeat-*` in the **Index** field under the **Index Privileges** section.

Reviewer 2: 1. Go to **Stack Management > Roles**, and then click **Create role**. 
2. In **Index privileges**,  enter:
   `filebeat-*` in the **Index** field
    `read` and `view_index` in the **Privileges** field

. Enter `read` and `view_index_metadata` in the **Privileges** field under the **Index Privileges** section.

[role="screenshot"]
image::user/security/images/create-role-index-example.png[Create role with index privileges]

[[index_privilege_dls_example]]

> ===== Example 2: Grant read access to specific documents matching the `filebeat-*` pattern

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
===== Example: Grant read access to specific documents that match the `filebeat-*` pattern
```

> . Enter `filebeat-*` in the **Indices** field under the **Index Privileges** section.

Reviewer 2: Same comment as above

1. Go to **Stack Management > Roles**, and then click **Create role**. 
2. In **Index privileges**,  enter:
   `filebeat-*` in the **Index** field
    `read` and `view_index` in the **Privileges** field

. Enter `read` and `view_index_metadata` in the **Privileges** field under the **Index Privileges** section.

> . Select the **Grant read privileges to selected documents** option.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
. Select **Grant read privileges to selected documents**.
```

> . Enter an {es} query describing the documents you wish to grant access to. In this example, we are writing a query which allows access to documents that have a `category` field equal to `click`:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
. Enter an {es} query that describes the documents you want to grant access to. This example writes a query that allows access to documents that have a `category` field equal to `click`:
```

+
[source,sh]
--------------------------------------------------
{
  "match": {
    "category": "click"
  }
}
--------------------------------------------------
+

> NOTE: {kib} automatically surrounds your DLS query with a `query` block, so it is not necessary to provide your own.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
NOTE: {kib} automatically surrounds your DLS query with a `query` block, so you don't have to provide your own.
```
